Add `README.md` (#11)
strimzi/test-clients: README.md

[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/cncf/strimzi/_apis/build/status/test-clients?branchName=main)](https://dev.azure.com/cncf/strimzi/_build/latest?definitionId=38&branchName=main)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache--2.0-blue.svg)](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0)
[![Twitter Follow](https://img.shields.io/twitter/follow/strimziio.svg?style=social&label=Follow&style=for-the-badge)](https://twitter.com/strimziio)

# Strimzi Test Clients

This repository contains HTTP and Apache Kafka clients used in Strimzi systemtests:

> * Kafka Producer which periodically produces messages into a topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kafka Producer, which periodically produces messages into a topic
```

> * Kafka Streams application which reads messages from a topic, transforms them (reverses the message payload) and sends them to another topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kafka Streams application which reads messages from a topic transforms them (reverses the message payload) and sends them to another topic
```

> * Kafka Consumer which is consuming messages from a topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kafka Consumer, which is consuming messages from a topic
```

> * Kafka Admin which allows user to alter/create/remove topics via Admin API

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Kafka Admin which, allows user to alter/create/remove topics via Admin API
```

> * HTTP Producer which produces messages to a topic using host and port

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HTTP Producer, which produces messages to a topic using host and port
```

> * HTTP Consumer which consumes messages from a topic and endpoint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* HTTP Consumer, which consumes messages from a topic and endpoint
```

All clients are used as K8s `Job` - example files are present in [examples folder](examples).
Logging configuration can be found in the `log4j2.properties` file in each module separately.

## Build

The pre-built images are available on our [Quay.io](https://quay.io/organization/strimzi-test-clients).
But if you want to do any modifications to the clients, you will need to build your own versions.

To build these examples you need some basic requirements.
Make sure you have `make`, `docker`, `JDK 11` and `mvn` installed.
By default, the Docker organization to which images are pushed is the one defined by the `USER` environment variable which is assigned to the `DOCKER_ORG` one.

> The organization can be changed exporting a different value for the `DOCKER_ORG` and it can also be the internal registry of an OpenShift running cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One can change the organization by exporting a different value for the `DOCKER_ORG`, and it can also be the internal registry of an OpenShift running cluster.
```

The command for building images with the latest supported Kafka version is:

```
make all
```

## Usage

> Basic requirement to run these clients is a Kubernetes cluster with Strimzi managed Apache Kafka cluster deployed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The essential requirement to run these clients is a Kubernetes cluster with Strimzi and Apache Kafka cluster.
```

> Examples how to deploy Apache Kafka using Strimzi can be found on the [Strimzi website](https://strimzi.io/quickstarts/minikube/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to deploy Apache Kafka using Strimzi can be found on the [Strimzi website](https://strimzi.io/quickstarts/minikube/).
```

* `PARTITIONS` - number of partitions per topic
* `REPLICATION_FACTOR` - `replication.factor` to set for topic
* `TOPICS_COUNT` - (def. 1) - number of topics to create
* `TOPIC_OPERATION` - `create`, `remove`|`delete`, `list`, `help`
* `TOPIC_OFFSET` - start numbering of batch topics creation with this given offset
* `CA_CRT` - the certificate of the CA which signed the brokers' TLS certificates, for adding to the client's trust store
* `USER_CRT` - the user's certificate
* `USER_KEY` - the user's private key
* `ADDITIONAL_CONFIG` - additional configuration for an admin application. Notice, that you can also override any previously set variable by setting this. The form is `key=value` records separated by new line character.

For each client, you can also configure OAuth:
* `OAUTH_CLIENT_ID` - id of the OAuth client
* `OAUTH_CLIENT_SECRET` - OAuth client's secret name
* `OAUTH_ACCESS_TOKEN` - OAuth access token
* `OAUTH_REFRESH_TOKEN` - OAuth refresh token
* `OAUTH_TOKEN_ENDPOINT_URI` - URI (uniform resource identifier) endpoint, where the client connects and performs resolution to retrieve access token

HTTP Producer

> * `HOSTNAME` - host name of service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `HOSTNAME` - hostname of service
```

* `PORT` - port on which is service exposed
* `TOPIC` - the topic producer will send to
* `DELAY_MS` - the delay, in ms, between messages
* `MESSAGE_COUNT` - the number of messages the producer should send
* `MESSAGE` - message which the producer should send

HTTP Consumer

> * `HOSTNAME` - host name of service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `HOSTNAME` - hostname of service
```

* `PORT` - port on which is service exposed
* `TOPIC` - topic from which should consumer receive messages

> * `CLIENT_ID` - id of client which consumer should use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `CLIENT_ID` - id of the client which consumer should use
```

> * `GROUP_ID` - id of group which consumer should join

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `GROUP_ID` - id of the group which consumer should join
```
